# Enable and Configure Logging

This guide explains how to locate and work with the logs that are generated by Command Deck. If you are in need of support, please provide the logs from both Unreal Engine and Stream Deck!

## Table of Contents

- [Locating the Unreal Engine Logs](#locating-the-unreal-engine-logs)
- [Changing the Command Deck Unreal Plugin Log Verbosity](#changing-the-command-deck-unreal-plugin-log-verbosity)
- [Locating the Stream Deck Plugin Logs](#locating-the-stream-deck-plugin-logs)
- [Changing the Command Deck Stream Deck Plugin Log Verbosity](#changing-the-command-deck-stream-deck-plugin-log-verbosity)

## Locating the Unreal Engine Logs

The Command Deck Unreal plugin generates extensive logs to assist in debugging, and can be found within the Unreal Engine logs. The location of these logs depends on your project type and platform.

For Unreal Engine projects, logs are typically located in:

```
[ProjectRoot]/Saved/Logs/
```

The main log file is usually named:
- `[ProjectName].log` - Current session log
- `[ProjectName]-backup-[Timestamp].log` - Previous session logs

Here's an example of what log entries look like in the Unreal Engine log file:

```
[2025.10.30-08.18.43:329][###]LogCommandDeck: Connected: url=ws://127.0.0.1:47764/
[2025.10.30-08.18.43:330][###]LogCommandDeck: Created action: action=io.mudall.command-deck.unreal.trigger-blueprint, context=16fd32e7deb6212015d774f1c9c2246f
...
[2025.10.30-09.33.43:128][###]LogCommandDeck: Destroyed action: action=io.mudall.command-deck.unreal.trigger-blueprint, context=16fd32e7deb6212015d774f1c9c2246f
```

## Changing the Command Deck Unreal Plugin Log Verbosity

You can control the verbosity of logs for the Command Deck Unreal plugin through configuration files.

Add this section to `DefaultEngine.ini` located in your `[ProjectName]/Config/` folder, with the desired verbosity level:

```ini
[Core.Log]
LogCommandDeck=Verbose
```

The following verbosity levels are utilized by the Unreal plugin:

- **`Error`** - Errors that break functionality and must be resolved
- **`Warning`** - Warnings about potential issues that may break functionality and should be resolved
- **`Log`** - General information messages
- **`Verbose`** - Detailed debugging and performance information

> ℹ️ `Warning` is the default verbosity level.

> ⚠️ You must restart the Unreal Engine after changing the verbosity level.

> ⚠️ Using `Verbose` level logging may impact performance due to the increased volume of log messages.

## Locating the Stream Deck Plugin Logs

The Command Deck Stream Deck plugin also generates logs that are essential for troubleshooting plugin behavior. These logs are separate from the Stream Deck logs.

For Windows, the logs are located at:
```
%APPDATA%\Elgato\StreamDeck\Plugins\io.mudall.command-deck.unreal.sdPlugin\logs\
```

The log file is named using the following convention: `io.mudall.command-deck.unreal.[Timestamp].log` 

Here's an example of entries in the log:

```
2025-10-31 16:32:35.688 [INF] App launching...
2025-10-31 16:32:39.270 [INF] Starting websocket server: port=47764
2025-10-31 16:32:41.133 [INF] Connection opened to Stream Deck
2025-10-31 16:32:42.436 [INF] Action created: actionUuid=io.mudall.command-deck.unreal.execute-command, actionContext=b35fcebdc63541eb8998c148bd652e35
```

## Changing the Command Deck Stream Deck Plugin Log Verbosity

You can control the verbosity of logs for the Command Deck Stream Deck plugin through the application settings.

The application settings are located in:

```
%APPDATA%\Elgato\StreamDeck\Plugins\io.mudall.command-deck.unreal.sdPlugin\bin\App.Settings.json
```
> ℹ️ This file is created when the plugin is launched by Stream Deck

Open `App.Settings.json` and modify the `Serilog:MinimumLevel:Default` value with the desired verbosity level:

```ini
  "Serilog": {
    "MinimumLevel": {
      "Default": "Verbose"
    }
  }
```

The following verbosity levels are utilized by the Command Deck plugin:

- **`Error`** - Errors that break functionality and must be resolved
- **`Warning`** - Warnings about potential issues that may break functionality and should be resolved
- **`Information`** - General information messages
- **`Debug`** - Detailed debugging information
- **`Verbose`** - Performance information

> ℹ️ `Information` is the default verbosity level.

> ⚠️ You must restart Stream Deck after changing the verbosity level.